---
title: Prepare! To Meditate!
---

So the first thing is to turn on the baseball game at 7 o'clock. If it's not 7
o'clock then what you need to do is change into something comfortable, probably
shorts. You can try some flip flops but that's up to you. Just something chill.
If it's still not 7 o'clock once you're in your clothes you're going to need to
check the news to see what's been going on. If there's been anything going on
that makes you a little uncomfortable try some cartoons. You could also just
read something online. Sometimes when you're waiting to meditate scrolling
through online is just the ticket. First you need to grab your phone or a
computer. Go to a website or an app where other people tell everyone what they
think. Just scroll through all those things for a little bit. Just what the
doctor ordered. It's probably still not 7 o'clock so you should make something
to eat like some nice paella. First you're going to have to get back on the
internet and get a recipe. Perfect. Before you look for the recipe just peek to
see what all the people have to say about what they've been thinking since the
last time you looked. Dang! Then don't forget the first thing you're going to
need is the paella recipe. Just search it. You could also text someone if they
have one so also do that. Do both. To be sure about the paella tasting good
include the word "best" when you search it and text someone. You don't want just
any paella recipe. It should be the best otherwise your meditation will be crap.
The first thing you're going to do once you get the recipe is to make it. Just
go ahead and make that thing the way the recipe says. Since it's the best one
you should be ok just following the instructions exactly like it says. By now
it's getting closer to 7 o'clock than it was before so keep an eye on the time.
You'll also need to change into something that doesn't have cooking mess on it.
Before you do that make a quick phone call to your neighbor and check in to see
if their truck has been fixed so you can borrow it later on in the future.
Depending on how that goes you might need to ask when a better time to call back
would be. Put some new shorts on. It's got to be 7 o'clock already. But it
probably isn't. This is exactly what we want. First, get back online. You need
to buy something. You'll figure out what you need as you go. A little of this a
little of that. One or two of each. Subscribe to something too, that's key. Let
this entire process flow naturally after first checking your email. If you can't
find something to spend money on initially don't worry, it will come. The next
thing you need to do is get something sweet to eat. Eat whatever you have, it's
fine. Try drinking alcohol too. Try drinking more of it. Mix and match.
Experiment. No one can tell you what to do. Keep going until you fall asleep.
