---
title: Weapon X is Pretty Sweet
---

[![Weapon X is nuts but also pretty sweet](/assets/images/weapon_x_hes_nuts_but_pretty_sweet.jpg)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weapon_X_(story_arc))

Weapon X is pretty sweet. He's all wild and nuts. He gets all pissed off because
they are doing all these experiments on him to make him a crazy human weapon.
They want to give him a really strong metal skeleton. That sounds crazy but
Weapon X can handle it because he's a mutant who can heal fast from any injury.
So he can handle having his regular skeleton replaced with a metal skeleton. But
even for him it's still super painful. And it's like pretty experimental because
they're not exactly sure how to replace a skeleton since they've never done it
before. They have to hook him up to all sorts of tubes and wires and equipment
and he has things sticking out of him left and right. They have to make Weapon X
pretty much all the way unconscious so they can do all this stuff because he
doesn't really want them to do it. A few times Weapon X wakes up when they are
doing all these things. He pretty much freaks out every time. Also he has bone
claws that come out of his hands. They're pretty long like knives. He can really
do some damage with them. He definitely killed some of the workers. And now that
his skeleton is metal those claws are way more dangerous. Plus since he can heal
fast he has huge muscles. That also makes his hair all super long and wild. He's
naked the entire time. The first few times he wakes up and kills some people at
the the lab they're able to get him back to sleep somehow. Because what they
want to do once he has a metal skeleton is be able to control his mind so he is
the ultimate weapon. Some of the workers are like hey no way he's too dangerous,
but the head guy is like exactly he'll be a perfect weapon we have to keep
going. Eventually though Weapon X gets loose and kills him and then gets away
into the forest. But what sucks for Weapon X is the mind control experiments
made it so he can't remember who he was before all this, which was Logan. But
then eventually his name is Wolverine. And that's how Wolverine became what we
know him to be. He eventually also joined X-Men. But the X in X-Men is for
Charles Xavier so it's not the same X as Weapon X.
